>> Brian Holt: There's a thing called
event delegation, or event bubbling.
There's a bunch of different names for
this.
This is a favorite interview question for
junior developers.
So if you're trying to get a job I would
suggest paying attention to this section.
Maybe the whole course, but also this.
[LAUGH] Also this part.
>> Brian Holt: So
I have 5 buttons here, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
And I could go through and bind
an event listener to each one of them.
That's a bit tedious, and also it's
less efficient to do it that way.
It would be really nice if I could do
one event listener for all five, right?
So what I can do is I do
document.querySelector
('.button-container') so that's the div
containing all of the buttons, right?
And I add an EventListener on that and
I'm listening for clicks and
it's listening to clicks inside
of that button-container, right?
Now if I click on 2 for example,
it's gonna say you clicked on button 2.
But I did that with one
EventListener on button-container.
Now that it works is when
I click on the button,
if the button doesn't necessarily prevent
it, that event bubbles to its parent.
And to its parent and to its parent until
it eventually reaches the root of the dom
and it just fizzles out from there.
But that means that every layer I
can listen on those parents for
clicks or changes or
inputs or things like that.
So in this particular case, I'm listening
for a click on the parent container.
So this does get fired,
if any one of these gets clicked.
You also get this event parameter that's
being fed into you by the browser.
And I can say, event.target,
and then I can know which
one was clicked on by looking
at event.target, okay?
And in this case,
I'm just doing event.target.innerText,
innerText is just gonna be 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, right?
So if I click on 5 then I get button 5.
>> Brian Holt: I don't know
why it's firing twice,
it's probably something to do with,
it should not normally fire twice.
>> Brian Holt: Probably cuz I've
refreshed the page in some weird way.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, I don't know,
maybe this works different in Chrome.
>> Brian Holt: Let's check for
just a second.
>> Brian Holt: Nope,
it's working in the same weird way.
Yeah I don't know what's
going on with that.
>> Brian Holt: So, quit.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, something that I
haven't done that you probably should do.
Because it's listening for clicks and
button container, it's also listening for
clicks that are not
necessarily on the buttons.
So if I click, I'm gonna click
right there next to the button.
It's still gonna be on button-container.
You clicked on button 1 2 3 4 5, so
it grabs all of the text, right?
So that's what's happening because
I'm clicking on button-container and
it's grabbing all of the text
from all of the buttons.
Because that's the inner
text of button-container.
>> Brian Holt: So
how would I prevent that from happening?
Well, I could check if I did.
>> Brian Holt: If I checked
if event.target.tag type,
I'm gonna have to look at this.
>> Brian Holt: x =
document.querySelector('button').
>> Brian Holt: Okay and
I can say x.tagname, yeah.
So what I can do here, I can say like.
Oops, get rid of that.
>> Brian Holt: If event.target.tagName
=== 'button', butt, wow.
>> Brian Holt: I'm tired.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then here I would say alert, right, jeez.
>> Brian Holt: This would work, right.
You would check the tag name,
see if it's a button.
If it's a button, then do it,
if it's not a button, then ignore it.
>> Brian Holt: Make sense?
>> Brian Holt: Now, what happens if
I wanna prevent this from moving up,
if I wanna prevent it from
bubbling even further, right?
Let's say this parent container for
button-container had
another event listener that I
wanted to prevent from happening.
What you can say is event.prevent.
>> Brian Holt: Default I think well
that's not what you would want to do it's
preventPropagation I think is what it is.
>> Brian Holt: I wanna make sure,
event.event prevent
propagation I think is what it is.
Stop propagation, is what you do,
and that would prevent it from
going even further up, right?
And it would just stop it
right there at that level.
There is also prevent default which,
>> Brian Holt: There are some things that
like, like forms, that if you like click a
submit button on it will actually try and
do like a full submit to like a server or
something like that.
If you wanna prevent stuff like that from
happening, you'll use prevent default.
There are several things that you can do.
>> Brian Holt: So
this will be stop, stopPropagation.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so that is
event bubbling or event delegation,
you can kinda call it
either one of those things.
And again, when I interviewed
as a junior developer at some
of the big tech companies, this was
a favorite question for them to ask me.
>> Brian Holt: Any questions about events,
about the dom?
This is kind of like the surface of the
dom but hopefully it's kind of demystified
a little bit so you feel more
comfortable experimenting with it.
This is, I would say maybe 50% of the way
that you're gonna interact with the dom.
There's a bunch more stuff
that you can do with it, but
this is a good starting point.
Event listeners, and event bubbling,
and messing with style, and
messing with text, and things like that.
>> Brian Holt: Good?
Please?
>> Speaker 2: Could we talk about
the target portion of that text?
>> Brian Holt: Sure, so events.target,
this is the where the event happened,
right?
So here I have five different buttons,
So if I click on button 5,
then event.target is going to
be this button right here.
It would be the same object if I said
document.querySelector for this button.
It's going to be
the representation of that button.
I could just say something, let's just
get this into code so I can mess with it.
>> Brian Holt: All right,
let's just make this full screen I guess.
>> Brian Holt: So if I came in here and
said something like.
>> Brian Holt: Event.target.innerText
equals CLICKED.
So that means anytime I click on one of
those buttons it's gonna hit CLICKED,
or become CLICKED.
>> Brian Holt: So,
let's go back to my browser.
>> Brian Holt: Here, so as soon as I
click on one of these buttons, like 3,
it's gonna become CLICKED.
>> Brian Holt: Does that make sense?
So it's whatever button that
ended up getting clicked on.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, just makes
the whatever it's focusing on actionable?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so you can start
interacting with whatever was the target
thereof.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, you got it.